
# Agile Coach    
An Agile Coach transforms initiatives to deliver lasting change within agencies that focus on delivering value and outcomes for residents. This role often works closely with scrum masters, product managers, and program leaders. Agile coaches enable teams to deliver products and services across an organization or organizations. Coaches may be required to work across levels including: at the team level, working with teams to ensure that delivery teams within agencies are adopting agile practices and tools while performing effectively; at the portfolio or program level, to help agencies to establish the right processes for managing a portfolio of work in an agile way; at the organization level, to drive strategic change across the organization and ensure that adoption of agile techniques is embedded from the most senior levels of the organization; or across all levels to ensure that organizations adopt a pragmatic approach to the way in which they govern delivery and continuous improvement of digital services.

The Agile Coach will embed an agile culture using techniques from a wide range of agile and lean methodologies and frameworks but be methodology agnostic. They should be able to understand waterfall approaches to be able to teach and enable agile ways of working. They help to create an open and trust-based environment by establishing feedback loops within the team and across disciplines, which enables a focus on outcomes, delivery and facilitates continuous improvement. They help coach the team through different phases of the delivery product life cycle; assess the culture of a team or organization and delivery processes in place to identify improvements and facilitate these improvements with the right type of support; showcase relevant tools and techniques such as coaching, advising, workshops, and mentoring. They maintain cadence of delivery by managing relationships between people and across teams, engage with stakeholders at all levels of the organization; develop clear lines of escalation, in agreement with senior managers; ensure any stakeholder can easily find out an accurate and current project or program status, without disruption to delivery; work effectively with other suppliers and agencies; apply best tools and techniques to: team roles, behaviors, structure and culture, agile ceremonies and practices, knowledge transfer and sharing, program management, cross-team coordination, and overall governance of digital service delivery; ensure key metrics and requirements that support the team and delivery are well defined and maintained; equip staff with the ability to coach others; and executive coaching on the fundamental considerations of digital service delivery design.

The Agile Coach will possess knowledge and experience in focusing primarily on training the teams to write good user stories; prioritization of the work based on business value and handling of the tasks by the team; and placing substantial efforts on team member role training, time-boxing and providing strong metrics for all players.

## Experience
This classification must have a minimum of six (6) years of experience in creating and implementing an agile culture utilizing agile methodologies and frameworks in complex teams and organizations.

## And Education
This classification requires the possession of a bachelor’s degree in an IT-related, project management, leadership, communications, or Engineering field. Additional qualifying experience may be substituted for the required education on a year-for-year basis.
