
# Product Manager    
A Product Manager facilitates product vision alignment and strategy to meet clear data driven goals and success metrics. They act as champions of stakeholders to align and meet their expectations, champions of the team to optimize workflow velocity and well-being by cutting through uncertainty, champions of design and the end user in discovering and validating real user value, and act as the voice of product as it orients towards user-centered service delivery. They also manage the delivery, ongoing success, and continuous improvement of one or more digital products and/or platforms in collaboration with the Product Lead.

The Product Manager will lead one or more multi-disciplinary delivery teams to deliver excellent new products and/or iterations to existing products to meet user needs; gather user requirements based on a communicable understanding of diverse audience groups; define and get stakeholder buy-in for product definition and delivery approach; create effective, prioritized product descriptions, and delivery plans to meet user needs in a cost-effective way; interpret user research in order to make the correct product decisions; continually keep abreast of changes to user habits, preferences, and behaviors across various digital platforms and their implications for successful delivery of government digital services; underpin the delivery and iteration of digital services through effective analysis of qualitative and quantitative user data; and communicate credibly with a wide range of digital delivery disciplines and talent.

The Product Manager will possess knowledge and experience in development and delivery of digital products such as websites and software applications; collaboration with leaders to develop and facilitate a product vision and then work closely with designers and engineers to ship the product; both systems acumen and the technical know-how to communicate across disciplines: research/analytics, design, content, and engineering.

## Experience
This classification must have a minimum of five (5) years of experience in understanding end-to-end product development cycles developing products; UX conducting market research; generating product requirements; determining product road maps and specifications, production timetables, and time-integrated plans for product introduction; and developing service to market strategies; and managing client service relations.

## And Education
This classification requires the possession of a bachelor’s degree preferably but not required in an IT-related field, Engineering/Computer Science, design, or another related field. Additional qualifying experience may be substituted for the required education on a year-for-year basis depending on the program/product area. This includes bootcamps and experience managing product delivery processes. Scrum leading certification is a plus.
