

# User Experience Researcher    
User Experience Researchers plan, design and carry out research activities with users that help teams get a deep understanding of the people that use government services. This research informs policy, proposition, service, content, and interaction design so that services work well for users and achieves policy intent. User Experience Researchers help the team understand their existing users by regularly talking to, observing, and gathering feedback. Also, help the team reach out to harder to reach people by finding ways to meet them where they are.

User Experience Researchers will design and conduct research activities that turn research data into clear findings that inform decisions on service design, involving clients and partners in analysis and synthesis to increase consensus and challenge assumptions. They will include all kinds of users in appropriate research activities to help teams deliver accessible services to the diversity of users of government services. They will capture and share real stories to help build empathy for users.

The User Experience Researcher will possess knowledge and understand and have experience of a range of user research methods, including qualitative and quantitative research methods. They will understand how to choose appropriate methods for different stages of the product life cycle and situations and apply methods correctly. This can include but is not limited to crafting surveys to inform design and content strategy; recruiting and screening participants; creating human-centered frameworks such as user journeys and behavior archetypes; maintaining and tracking research activities across multiple sprints; creating discussion guides, screeners, and research plans; conducting usability and timed-task tests; and producing user requirements specifications and experience goals, personas.

The User Experience Researcher will understand the social and technological context for government services and help colleagues understand how digital technology is changing user behavior, and the challenges and opportunities for government services. The User Experience Researcher demonstrates knowledge of the technologies used to build and operate digital services; understands the different technical roles in a multidisciplinary team; and recommends system enhancements according to research insights. The User Experience Researcher understands user-centered design practices and knows how to embed them into an agile workflow to deliver timely findings. They have the ability to work in an open, iterative and collaborative way in a multidisciplinary team.

## Experience
This Classification must have a minimum of five (5) years of experience in conducting user research, analysis, and synthesis, could be a combination of qualitative and quantitative research.

## And Education
This classification requires a bachelor’s degree, preferably in areas like Human Factors, Experimental/Cognitive Psychology, Human Computer Interaction, Information Architecture, Ethnographic User Research, Computer Science or related field, or social sciences such as psychology, sociology, demography, geography, anthropology, statistics, policy analysis, or a research-related field or equivalent professional experience/training. Additional qualifying experience may be substituted for the required education on a year-for-year basis.
